so just got a question you know well
what the heck can you do with the
digital gauge and I thought you know the
best place to start would just be by
walking me through some of the some of
the basic features of the instrument and
what we're looking at here is just a
test Oh
Tesla 550 I haven't set up for 410 a
I've got it hooked up to a system that's
not running and so you can see you know
we've got two 15.8 on the most I to
sixteen point five and a high side and
what we're looking at on the top there
the twenty seventy four point five and a
seventy four point three those are our
corresponding saturation temperatures so
we're looking at simply pressure and
corresponding saturation you can see at
the very top the display here I have it
set for r410a and I have it set for PSIG
which pounds per square inch gauge and
then we got our battery indicator there
as I scroll through the menus what we're
going to see here first of all is our
temperatures and you'll notice there
really wasn't too much of a change there
right the measured temperature and a
saturation temperature are very close to
the same because their systems off and
the refrigerants saturated which means
it's a mixture of liquid and vapor if I
scroll down another time here you'll say
got no sub no superheat and two tenths
of a degree of sub cooling right that's
more or less what we're looking at is
the total uncertainty of the gauge at
this point so the digital gauge itself
is you know the making a measurement of
temperature with a clamp and it's making
a measure of pressure with the with the
pressure transducers and it's
calculating the the actual superheat and
subcooling right at this time so you
know those are just you know simply
clamp down here and again everything's
sort of shut off right now so I just
wanted to walk it through through the
basic venues we hit that again and now
we're looking at differential
temperature between the between the two
and I'm just shooting this by hand on an
iPhone so you know please excuse the
unstudied Asst now if we take a look
here again at the at the instrument we
hit the mode key this is pretty some
pretty slick stuff they put into the
gauges right now what we're looking at
is a timer on the left and then
measured temperature should be a
measured pressure on the on the right
there at the right hand lower right hand
corner and that's two hundred sixteen
point five psi if I push start here what
you're going to see is that's going to
start to flash up here and it actually
recorded my starting pressure and what
it's looking at now is my starting
pressure my measured pressure and the
difference between the starting and the
measured pressure over time and one of
the cool things that this thing will do
is it uses the gas loss and a
temperature sensor so it actually
measures the the it measures the
temperature of the line measures the
pressure and you know obviously this is
for 10a in here but if this is nitrogen
in here we'd use the pressure
temperature relationship and nitrogen
and the gas laws to determine if the
system was leaking or stable so really
all you have to do in this is go to you
know the mode key go to the mode key on
this thing to get this to get this
started up press Start and then it's
going to just continue to flash that in
a couple seconds here we should get a
one up there meaning it's gone through
one minute of time elapsed and then I'll
just go ahead and stop this
but this uses Boyle's law to determine
that and there we go there's the one
right there
then when I push the stop it's going to
show me my final pressure or my measure
temp and it's in a drop now if this had
changed the temperature like if it had
gotten hotter it should have also
increased in pressure and if this had
not changed the pressure it would
actually show a leak it would indicate a
leak here because it knows that nitrogen
would change in pressure with a
corresponding change in temperature so
that's that's you know the basics of
that one now if we go to the mode key
again this is our vacuum mode this is
more of a vacuum indicator right now
it's obviously not reading inches of
mercury it's reading 216 psi because
that's the pressure we have on here this
is a mode for evacuation it's more of a
roughing gauge than a micron gauge
because obviously it doesn't read near
enough in the micron level and we hit it
again we're back to differential
temperature and differential temperature
and pressure let me to scroll through
the menu so that's that's the basics of
a gauge when you're looking at it you
have nine bunch of your supp button
which allows
of changer settings start/stop button
and also refrigerant button so when I
hit this you see the refrigerant at the
top flashing I can change this up or
down to change the refrigerant and hit
refrigerant again to store it and it
will calculate those corresponding
saturation temperatures have a min/max
mean key which allows me to do as the
unit's running to show the minimum
reading the maximum reading and the mean
P equals zero which is for preserving
the pressure transducers backlight
button over here and then our power
button over here and then obviously the
arrows to scroll through the menus so
that's just the basic overview I'm going
to go ahead and start this thing up
we'll get an idea of what we can see
with it now